The dermatologists and practitioners at Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center are experts in treating and managing common skin conditions, such as eczema. This is a skin condition that is actually a part of a group of skin conditions that is caused by the body’s response to an immune system or allergic reaction. This reaction leads to inflammation of the skin on various parts of the body, including the face, neck, hands, ankles or other areas. This inflammation is also known as dermatitis. There are several types of eczema with the most common form being atopic dermatitis, which is the result of other allergic conditions such as hay fever or asthma. This form usually begins in infancy or childhood but can appear at any time. Contact dermatitis takes on two forms: irritant contact or allergic contact. These forms can appear after a substance irritates or damages the skin.
Eczema is most commonly characterized by dry, itchy or red skin, as well as persistent rashes. Usually, a patient’s skin will begin to itch before a rash appears. Most patients will experience patches of skin that are chronically itchy, dry or thickened. These patches can appear anywhere, but mostly occur on the face, neck, hands or legs. With children, patches can appear on the inner creases of the knees and elbows. Once the skin is scratched, dry patches, as well as open sores with crust, could develop which could become infected. Severe symptoms could include pus-filled blisters or a yellowish to light-brown crust developing over existing eczema patches, which could be a sign of a bacterial infection.
Doctors are not entirely sure what causes eczema but it is believed to be triggered by several factors. Immune system abnormalities, genetics, environment, skin irritants and skin barrier defects are the most common causes. Family genetics play a role where certain genes can cause patients to have extremely sensitive skin. A patient with relatives who suffer from asthma or hay fever is at a higher risk of developing eczema. Contact with certain fabrics and soaps, cold, dry climates, heat and sweat and even stress can trigger eczema symptoms. Defects in the skin barrier can allow germs in and moisture out which can also lead to flare-ups.
Eczema can be treated with a range of over-the-counter or prescribed medication and ointments. Hydrocortisone creams and ointments , as well as antihistamines, such as Benadryl, can be bought to help relieve symptoms. Prescription medications such as steroid creams or immunomodulators may help those with severe eczema. An oral steroid, or corticosteroid, may also be prescribed. In extreme cases, ultraviolet light therapy or laser treatment may also be applied to the affected areas. When other treatments have failed, immunosuppressants may be prescribed since these drugs suppress the immune system.

Our dermatology practitioners understand the anxiety and frustration patients feel when battling ongoing acne outbreaks. Acne is a common skin condition that affects millions of individuals. Our trained providers have years of experience and a history of success creating effective acne treatment plans to help patients manage their acne and enjoy a smooth, clear complexion. Although it is most often seen as affecting teenagers, acne also regularly affects adults. If you are tired of covering your acne with makeup or enduring the physical pain, embarrassment, and the emotional affliction that can develop from this condition, we encourage you to call our dermatology office to schedule an appointment today. We will provide a thorough skin analysis and create a tailored treatment plan to help clear up your complexion as quickly as possible.
Acne symptoms vary in combination with the type of acne and its severity. Blemishes are a common, visible symptom of acne and come in many different forms. Types of blemishes include blackheads, whiteheads, cysts, pustules, nodules, and papules. Each type of blemish ranges from mild to severe and will need to be treated accordingly. Studies have shown that acne can create emotional symptoms as well, which include low self-esteem and depression. Other symptoms associated with acne are dark spots on the skin and permanent scars.
Acne can be caused by a combination of things, such as bacteria and clogged pores; acne can be itchy, red, inflamed, or tender to the touch. A “flare-up” of acne can also occur for a number of different reasons, including hormonal fluctuations associated with puberty, pregnancy, and menopause. In addition, certain medications, such as the birth control pill, can cause acne, as well as stress and a poor diet. Once the exact cause of acne is diagnosed, a proper treatment plan can be established.
Research shows that over-the-counter ointments are rarely proven to effectively treat severe acne. Our dermatology offices offer numerous treatment options to control and manage acne and clear its symptoms. For milder cases of acne, topicals that contain salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide can help. In other cases with more inflammation, oral antibiotics can be effective. In addition to topical and oral prescriptions, laser treatments have also proven to be effective. Laser treatments can help reduce redness and other pigmentation issues associated with acne. Chemical peels may also help, depending on the type of acne.
The staff at Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center have worked with countless patients to help get their psoriasis symptoms under control. Psoriasis is described as a chronic skin problem that results from skin cells that grow too rapidly which results in thick, white, red or silvery patches of skin. This causes the skin to itch and/or burn, or scale and crust. While normal skin cells grow and flake off about every 4 weeks, those with psoriasis suffer from skin cells that rapidly move to the skin’s surface within days. This results in a build-up of thick patches also known as plaques. These plaques can range in size and usually appear on knees, elbows, hands, feet, lower back, and the scalp.
There are several different forms of psoriasis, including plaque psoriasis or psoriasis vulgaris, pustular psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, inverse psoriasis and erythrodermic or exfoliative psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the most common. While most cases of psoriasis are considered mild, some are difficult to treat and can require multiple treatments throughout a patient’s life. It is also important to note that psoriasis is not contagious and cannot be spread from person to person. Once it is diagnosed, it is a matter of managing the symptoms so that flare-ups can be minimized.
The most common symptoms associated with psoriasis include raised, bright red patches of skin that are covered with loose and silvery scales. Plaques can also appear in the same area on both sides of the body, such as on both knees and/or both elbows. The scalp can experience anything from mild scaling to areas of thick, crusted plaques. Itching is common before flare-ups especially when psoriatic patches appear in body folds such as under the buttocks or breasts. Tiny areas of skin bleeding, known as Auspitz’s sign, can occur when scales are picked or scraped off.  In addition, nails can appear pitted, discolored, or even crumble and fall off. Some common symptoms associated with the varying types of psoriasis include:
The exact cause of psoriasis has not been pinpointed by doctors. The overall thinking is that the immune system overreacts which causes inflammation as well as flaking of the skin. It is also believed that psoriasis can be inherited. Approximately 1/3 of people who have psoriasis have one or more family members with the condition. Scientists believe that certain genes interact which leads to psoriasis. However, a patient must inherit the right combination of genes as well as be exposed to a trigger. Symptoms can appear after triggers such as a stressful event, taking certain medications, strep throat, cold, dry weather or a scratch, cut or bad sunburn.
While there is no cure for psoriasis, there are a variety of treatments available to treat the condition depending on the severity and type of psoriasis a patient has. Mild cases can be treated with prescription lotions, creams and ointments that help to moisturize the skin. When the scalp is affected, shampoos, sprays and oils can be used. Oral medications can also be prescribed, and cortisone shots can be administered to slow down the growth of cells and reduce inflammation. Advancements in laser therapy have made huge improvements for many patients. Using phototherapy to expose a patient’s skin to special, ultraviolet light helps reduce symptoms, as well as helps the skin to look normal.
Rosacea is a chronic skin disease that can cause the skin to appear red or inflamed. While it is more common around the nose and cheek area, it can also spread to the eyes, ears, back, scalp or chest. The condition can occur in almost anyone, but it is most prevalent in middle-aged women with fair skin and light-colored hair. If rosacea is left untreated, it can worsen over time where symptoms can flare-up over weeks or months. After that time, symptoms can diminish but return again. Rosacea can often be mistaken for other skin conditions such as acne or an allergic reaction. The providers at Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center work with patients to help manage the symptoms of rosacea so that they can resume a normal, carefree life.
Symptoms of rosacea can vary from mild to severe. The tell-tale sign of rosacea is facial redness. In most patients, the central portion of the face is noticeably red. The small blood vessels of the nose and cheeks can swell and become visible. Other symptoms include red and swollen bumps on the face that look similar to acne. Sometimes the bumps are pus-filled. The skin can also feel hot and tender to the touch. Approximately half of rosacea sufferers have eye problems, such as eye irritation, dryness and reddened, swollen eyelids. In rare cases, a patient’s nose will appear enlarged because rosacea can cause the skin of the nose to thicken, which results in a bulbous appearance. Some common symptoms associated with the varying types of rosacea include:
While the exact cause of rosacea is unknown, doctors believe that it is caused by a combination of hereditary and environmental factors. People of Celtic or Scandinavian ancestry seem to have a higher incidence of rosacea. Patients usually have other family members that suffer from either rosacea or severe acne. People who are prone to have bad acne have a higher risk of developing rosacea. Scientists also believe that immune system overreactions can cause rosacea where a patient’s immune system overreacts to a certain bacterium. This theory, however, hasn’t been proven to be completely valid.
There are a large number of factors that can aggravate rosacea since they increase the blood flow to the surface of the skin. These can include alcohol, spicy foods, hot foods or beverages, sunlight, extreme temperatures, hot baths or showers, stress, embarrassment or anger, strenuous exercise and certain medications.
Though there is no cure for rosacea, there are a number of treatment options available, including antibiotics to help with inflammation. A patient could receive the medication in a pill form or as a cream, lotion or gel. Pills tend to be more effective in the short-term but can cause more side-effects. If antibiotics are not effective, acne drugs, such as isotretinoin, have proven to work for some patients. Laser procedures can be used to reduce the appearance of blood vessels and alleviate redness, improving the appearance of rosacea. 
The Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center staff understands how embarrassing a wart can be when it is located on a part of the body that is noticeable to others. A wart is a benign skin growth that looks and feels like a small, fleshy, grainy pea. They can appear almost anywhere on the body, but most commonly are found on the hands, fingers, and around the fingernails. They can be caused by the human papilloma virus, also known as HPV, but there are other causes as well. The most common types of warts are plantar, flat, and genital. Although most warts are considered harmless, it is advised that a trained dermatologist remove the wart once it is discovered and provide a treatment regime so that it does not return. Patients can receive effective wart removal and wart treatments that will eliminate this skin condition and prevent it from reoccurring.
Common wart symptoms include bumps that are tender, grainy at the top, and fleshy feeling. The area with the wart can be rough to the touch. Plantar warts look like light brown or flesh-colored lumps that are speckled with tiny, black spots, which are clotted blood vessels. These warts often appear on the soles of the feet. Flat warts are smaller, smoother and flatter compared to other types and can usually be found on the face and sometimes the legs. Genital warts appear in the pubic area, on the genitals, and in or around the vaginal area or anus. These warts appear as small, pink, red or flesh-colored growths. They can appear in clusters of 3 or 4 and can grow and spread rapidly. Though usually not painful, they can bleed or itch.
The cause of common warts is the human papilloma virus. “Papilloma” actually refers to the kind of wart that develops from the particular type of HPV. HPV lives in the flat, thin cells that are found on the skin’s surface and also surfaces of the mouth, throat, head, penis, vagina, cervix and anus. Out of the 100 HPV types, about 60 cause warts. Warts occur from having direct contact with HPV, which can be spread from person to person through skin-to-skin contact. Warts can also be the result of making contact with an object used by a person infected with HPV such as exercise equipment or a towel. The virus is usually spread through breaks in the skin such as a scrape or hangnail.
Even after initial treatment, warts can reoccur so it is important to find the right treatment method to help keep the condition at bay. Wart freezing is a common and successful treatment option. With freezing, a doctor utilizes liquid nitrogen to freeze the wart away. A blister will form around the wart where the dead tissues will fall off within a week. A substance called cantharidin is extracted from a blister beetle that’s applied to the skin to form a blister around the wart, which lifts it off the skin so the doctor can remove the wart’s dead portion. Other medications to treat warts include bleomycin, which is injected into the wart to kill the virus, and Aldara, which is a prescription cream that can be applied directly to the wart. When other methods are ineffective, surgery may be needed to cut away the wart. An electric needle or cryosurgery, or deep freezing, are methods that can be used to destroy the base of the wart. 
Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center’s team of dermatology practitioners are specialized to treat unique skin conditions, such as shingles. This is a painful skin rash that is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, the virus that also causes chickenpox. Shingles can appear anywhere on a patient’s body, but is most likely to appear on the side of the face or torso as a band or stripe of blisters. Older adults are more likely to get shingles, especially those with weakened immune systems. The majority of people with shingles will improve and not experience another reoccurrence. However, some patients can get it again, so it is essential to manage the condition accordingly. We have offices to serve you and help you overcome this troublesome skin condition.
The symptoms of shingles are usually only noticeable on a small section of one side of the body. The most common symptoms are pain, tingling, numbness, itching or burning, and/or a red rash. These symptoms usually appear a few days after the patient first experiences pain. Other symptoms include sensitivity to touch, fluid-filled blisters that can break open and crust over, fatigue, sensitivity to light, fever or a headache. Some patients may feel as if they have the flu. Those who have shingles usually find that their symptoms arrive in stages, with pain occurring first, and then visible skin-related symptoms.
Anyone who has ever had chickenpox is at risk of developing shingles because after a patient recovers from chickenpox, the virus may enter the nervous system and lie dormant for years. A weakened immune system caused by stress, disease or overall aging can put a patient at risk for shingles. Certain medications can also reawaken the virus. It is not entirely clear why the virus is reactivated but only shingles can develop and not chickenpox. There is also a small chance that a patient with a shingles rash can spread the virus to a person who is either never had chickenpox or never got the chickenpox vaccine.
While there is not a cure for shingles, there are a number of antiviral drugs that can provide relief, clear up symptoms and reduce the risk of complications. Common medications include: Valtrex, Famvir and Zovirax. Since shingles can be so painful, a doctor may prescribe a numbing agent in the form of a gel, cream, skin patch or spray. A pain relief cream such as capsaicin cream can be applied to the shingles rash to reduce pain. Injections of corticosteroids or local anesthetics may also be administered. In some cases, a doctor may even prescribe an anti-depressant to help a patient cope with the pain and symptoms.
The providers at Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center are experts in the management and removal of moles. They work with patients as they come to our dermatology offices for routine mole checks. Moles are a common condition of the skin and can develop anywhere on the body, appearing either alone or in clusters. For most, they usually appear in early childhood or at least by age 30. Moles are growths on the skin that are usually small spots, black or brown in color, that result from groups of pigmented cells. While some moles look at a mole as a sign of beauty, some moles can be bothersome, especially if a large collection of them exist on the skin. By adulthood, it’s normal to have anywhere from 10 to 40 moles. Most moles are harmless, but some can develop into cancer. It is important to make a mole check appointment, especially if you notice new mole growths, or if one begins to change in size or shape, itches or bleeds.
Whether you have moles that are bothersome, unattractive or unusual in appearance that could point to a sign of skin cancer, it is time to contact our office of specially-trained professionals to find out your treatment options. Our office specializes in treating a wide variety of moles from those that are benign to cancerous. If we find any moles to be cancerous, we can treat you from the initial consultation to choosing the right procedure to post-op care. We are committed to providing you with the level of care that you require and deserve.
A typical mole is a brown spot found virtually anywhere on the body, including the fingers, toes, scalp, and even under the fingernails. The most common areas for most to have moles are on the trunk or on the back of an individual. Moles can take on various sizes and shapes, and range in color from black, tan, pink, blue or red. In general, moles are about 6 mm or ¼ of an inch in diameter. While most moles are benign, some can be diagnosed as dysplastic, which means it is an active mole and is changing. This change may result in no visible difference in size, shape, or color, or it could turn into a cancerous growth.
Dermatologists recommend that patients watch for any changes to their moles and get mole checks on an annual basis. It is helpful to use the ABCDE test to remember what to look for to determine whether a mole could be cancerous. Moles could be cancerous if the following characteristics exhibit change:
Watch out for a mole that turns either partially or completely black. A patient should call our office immediately if the mole exhibits any of the ABCDE characteristics described above, or is painful, oozes, bleeds, burns, itches, or has appeared out of nowhere. If a person is over the age of 30 and has a mole regrow after it has been previous removed, this is also a warning sign.
Most moles do not warrant treatment, but a doctor may need to remove a mole if he/she determines one to be suspicious or cancerous or if a patient complains of discomfort, irritation or cosmetic issues. In surgical excision, the area around the mole will be numbed and then using a scalpel or similar device, the mole and some surrounding skin will be removed. The wound will then be closed with stitches. Sometimes, if the mole is surface-level, a surgical shave can be performed where the area is numbed and a small blade is used to cut all around and beneath the mole. Stitches are not required for this method.
Mohs micrographic surgery is a highly effective, highly detailed surgery that is common in treating basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Mohs micrographic surgery is a tissue sparing surgical procedure that involves a doctor excising the cancerous lesions from the top layer of the skin and working downward. After the skin layers are removed, they are immediately examined through a process called histology. This consists of microscopically examining tissue that have been frozen and treated with a special dye to determine if any more cancer remains.
Since this is a detailed surgery, which requires special skill and expertise, it is important to go to a highly trained and experienced dermatologist. Dr. Matthew Barrows is skilled in performing Mohs micrographic surgery successfully and effectively. In addition, Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center has a plastic surgeon on staff who can work with patients post-surgery to repair all defects following surgery.
A doctor will use a local anesthetic to numb the surgery site. Before beginning to excise, or cut, horizontal layers of the cancer starting from the top-most layer. The layer will immediately be frozen, treated with dye and looked at under a microscope. This allows for an immediate microscopic examination of the excised cells, which is known as tissue histology. A tumor map is generated to see if any more cancerous cells remain. If more cancer cells are discovered, another layer of skin will be removed. This process will continue until there is no more cancer present. Once complete, the doctor will examine the wound and will either use sutures to stitch it up or, in some cases, call in our plastic surgeon for further consultation.
Compared to other skin cancer treatments, Mohs is significantly more labor intensive and can require more than one physician to successfully perform the surgery. A patient might encounter up to 4 doctors during the surgery, including a surgeon, histotechnician, pathologist and a reconstructive or plastic surgeon. Since an anesthetic is used, most patients experience little pain during surgery but may feel mild discomfort. As an outpatient surgery, Mohs is performed in our office. The entire process can take several hours depending on the complexity or size of the cancer.
After surgery, most patients experience little pain so medication usually is not required. If there is pain associated with the surgery, a doctor will normally advise an over-the-counter painkiller. While the majority of patients are able to return to normal activities by the next day, patients must refrain from taking part in strenuous exercise for 1-3 weeks. If the wound was stitched, the stitches will be removed anywhere from 4 to 14 days after surgery. Since the cancer is removed layer-by-layer, micrographic surgery provides a high cure rate as well as preserves surrounding healthy skin, but there is always a potential for scarring. It is unlikely that cancer will recur after this surgery. When treating basal cell carcinoma, the success rate is 97%-99%. Squamous cell carcinoma has a cure rate of around 94%. Treating melanoma-in-situ is heavily dependent upon the skill of the surgeon and the success rate can range anywhere from 75% to 95%.
Superficial Radiation Therapy, commonly known as SRT, is a low-energy radiation that goes no deeper than the thickness of the skin. SRT delivers a precise, calibrated dose of radiation that targets the abnormal and more rapidly dividing cells while allowing the surrounding normal tissue ample time to repair itself.  SRT offers a painless, safe and highly effective nonsurgical skin cancer treatment.
Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center is proud to offer a proven nonsurgical treatment option for basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma (nonmelanoma skin cancers). SRT can be used to treat lesions on the arms, legs, back and trunk.  It is especially well suited for skin cancers located on the head and neck. SRT easily delivers a precise and controlled dose of radiation to delicate areas that are difficult to treat – along the fold of the nose, eyelids, lips, corner of the mouth and lining of the ear.  With the addition of SRT, we are able to provide not only a cosmetically pleasing result, but also another treatment option for high risk surgery patients, including patients with diabetes and cardiac diseases. SRT is FDA cleared with excellent cure rates that rival surgery. SRT is widely recognized by insurance companies as an effective treatment option and is covered by most insurance plans, including Medicare.
Patients usually undergo a series of treatments depending on the nature and extent of the cancer.  You should expect the same results as surgery, but with these additional benefits:
Superficial Radiation Therapy has a proven cure rate of 95%, which is comparable to Mohs surgery. A low-dose of Superficial Radiation Therapy safely destroys non-melanoma skin cancer cells without damaging surrounding tissue.
Patients are able to go home or resume normal activity immediately after Superficial Radiation Therapy due to its easy administration process. Patients will need to make sure they are wearing protective clothing or using sunscreen to shield the treated area from exposure to sunlight and UV rays.

Levulan® Kerastick is a special treatment using aminolevulinic acid and light to treat the skin affected by precancerous lesions. It is most often used to treat skin lesions on the face, scalp, and extremities. During the procedure process, aminolevulinic acid will be applied using an applicator to the skin and the skin will be exposed to a special blue light to complete the process. At Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center, our skilled providers will use precision and great care to ensure that the acid is only applied to the lesion in question, and not the surrounding area. This procedure removes the lesion and leaves minimal scarring.
On the day of the procedure, patients will be asked to wear clothing or head gear that will protect them from the sun, especially if treatment will be taking place on the face. Using an applicator, aminolevulinic acid will be applied directly to the treatment site.  After the application, the patient will wait an hour before being exposed to a special blue light, completing the procedure. The light exposure takes only about 20 minutes to complete. It is imperative that the patient avoids the sun and bright lights for at least 24 hours after the procedure, as this could negatively affect the skin. Upon fully completing treatment, patients may experience irritation and redness at the treatment site, which will subside within a few days.
Following Levulan® Kerastick treatment patients may experience some side effects including redness swelling and some scabbing or scaling at the lesion site. The side effects should subside within 4 weeks after treatment; should they persist, contact your dermatologist immediately. Patients will not have any aftercare requirements, such as medications, unless directed by the dermatologist, but they may need to bandage the treatment sites.
Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center offers cryosurgery, also known as cryotherapy, as an option for precancer treatment. This is the method of taking liquid nitrogen and using it to destroy abnormal tissue. Externally, it is used to treat tumors found on the skin, lesions and moles that show early stages of skin cancer and actinic keratosis or precancerous skin growths. Liquid nitrogen is administered directly to the skin using a cotton swab or spray and the growth is removed. Most patients are able to leave the office shortly after the procedure.
Cryosurgery is a simple procedure that takes a minimal amount of time. Patients can expect their procedure to be over quickly. During the procedure, a provider will sterilize the area being treated. Using a cotton swab or spray, the liquid nitrogen is administered, immediately killing all cells that it is in contact with. For treatment, liquid nitrogen is placed at a temperature between -346 and -320 degrees Fahrenheit. At this temperature, liquid nitrogen instantly freezes and destroys all cells upon contact. The provider will ensure that only the targeted area will be affected by the treatment. Following the procedure, patients may return to their regular routines.
Most patients go home immediately after cryosurgery. Following the procedure, patients are required to care for the area where the skin was frozen. The provider will give precise instructions on how to care for the treatment site to ensure that patients keep the area clean and protected from possible infection.
Topical chemotherapy is an effective treatment used to treat precancerous areas and skin cancer effecting only the first layer of the skin. The practitioners at Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center use these topical creams to destroy cancer cells and prevent them from duplicating. Patients may apply the treatment at home, rather than at the dermatologist’s office, so they have the added benefit of undergoing treatment in complete privacy and comfort. The length of this treatment varies among patients and depends on the type and severity of their condition. 
Topical Chemotherapy is a nonsurgical form of treatment that effectively seeks to destroy cancerous cells in the top layer of the skin. Commonly used topical creams for this treatment are Imiquimod (IMQ) and 5-fluorouracil (5FU). IMQ works with your immune system to destroy cancerous cells, while 5FU prevents cells from growing. Topical Chemotherapy may also be used to treat precancerous cells and tumors to potentially prevent cancer. Treatments typically last over a long length of time depending on the patient’s needs; however, topical chemotherapy remains a proven solution for treating the early stages of cancer and precancerous cells.
Topical chemotherapy is a self-administered treatment used to treat mild skin cancer. Typically, the cream used as treatment is applied once or twice a day for weeks at a time. This treatment will cause irritation and redness to the skin as well as some soreness. Throughout your treatment, you will have to return to your dermatologist to have the treatment site examined. The length of your treatment will be based on the dermatologist’s analysis of how the medication is working on your skin. Expect the treatment area to feel and appear raw and uncomfortable throughout the duration of using the topical medication as it destroys cancerous and precancerous cells on the skin.
Patients will need to ensure they are caring for their skin throughout and after their treatment. In some instances, patients will need to wrap the treatment site in bandages. Certain moisturizers, such as those based with petroleum jelly, may be used to help soothe the skin. The overall healing process after treatment is lengthy and may take up to two weeks. Your provider will work with you to discuss aftercare solutions and how to maintain a smooth healing process.
BOTOX® is an FDA approved, nonsurgical cosmetic procedure that is injected into the skin to relax the underlying muscles that cause wrinkles. The most common injection sites are on the forehead, around the eyebrows, and on the sides of the eyes, commonly known as crows feet. BOTOX® combats the signs of aging by creating a softer, smoother skin appearance and diminishing wrinkles. BOTOX® is created by botulinum toxin type A and is safe and effective to use for the treatment of wrinkles. Our dermatology office uses BOTOX® for aesthetic improvement as well as excessive sweating. When used aesthetically, BOTOX® lasts for about 3-4 months. Those seeking BOTOX® for underarm sweating should expect results to last up to 6 months.
The best candidates for BOTOX® are those who are unhappy with the facial wrinkles in the upper portion of the face or those who suffer from excessive sweating under the arms. Those suffering from excessive sweating can be treated as early as age 18. BOTOX® is suitable for anyone seeking a nonsurgical approach to rejuvenated skin.
After a BOTOX® injection, patients can expect some minor swelling and redness at the injection sites. This goes away quickly and is generally not noticeable within about an hour after the treatment. Exercise should be avoided or limited within the first 24 hours. The results following a BOTOX® treatment are not immediate. It generally takes about 7 days for patients to see results. Our patients love their results so much, many come back every quarter to get reinjected so that they can maintain their gorgeous results.
JUVÉDERM® is an FDA approved facial filler used to reduce wrinkles and increase volume in different areas of the face. Composed of hydraluronic acid, JUVÉDERM® can last up to one year. It allows patients to maintain a soft, natural appearance through the use of Hylacross technology, which is made of a less granular consistency. JUVÉDERM® improves the overall look of one’s face and skin by minimizing smile lines, creases and wrinkles.
Individuals who are seeking to nonsurgically treat wrinkles and increase facial volume can be good candidates for JUVÉDERM®. JUVÉDERM® works well in patients who wish to improve moderate facial lines or augment the lips. 
Following their JUVÉDERM® injections, patients can see immediate results. JUVÉDERM® contains anesthetic lidocaine, so patients should not experience discomfort, although there may be some redness at or around the injection sites after the treatment has been complete and can last up to a week. Treatment is expected to last up to a year.
Microdermabrasion is a skin rejuvenation treatment that sweeps away dead skin cells and improves the overall appearance of the skin. A tool is used to exfoliate the skin’s top layers and stimulate the growth of new skin. The tool is used to gently slough off the top layer of skin, providing a softer and brighter appearance. Our offices offer DermaSweep and SilkPeel microdermabrasion treatments. These safe and effective methods gently remove dead skin cells. These treatments have been found to improve the skin’s appearance and create a healthy, glowing complexion.
Microdermabrasion is a safe and effective treatment for anyone desiring to improve his or her appearance and improve skin tone and texture. Patients with skin color irregularities, such as hyperpigmentation, can be treated with this method as well. Microdermabrasion is not advised for those who have severe acne or who have used certain acne drugs, such as isotretinoin, in the past 6-12 months. Patients who have a history of developing keloids or other abnormal scarring should avoid microdermabrasion.
At RejuvedermMD Aesthetic Center, we offer multiple microdermabrasion options:
A microdermabrasion procedure can take 15-30 minutes to perform. The patient can expect to feel suction from the vacuum and a gentle abrasion during the treatment. After the procedure the patient’s skin may feel warm or appear pink. This usually fades within a few hours to a few days. A lotion and sunscreen will be applied to the patient before they leave the office. The patient’s skin may feel sensitive for a few days following treatment. Follow the post treatment instructions given by your medical professional to obtain the best results after your microdermabrasion procedure.
A chemical peel is a skin rejuvenation treatment that uses a topical chemical solution to promote exfoliation of the top layer of skin so that it peels away. Once the peeling process is complete, a fresh layer of skin that looks brighter and feels softer is revealed. At Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center, the treatment is most commonly used on the faces of our patients, but it can also be applied to the neck, chest or hands. A chemical peel is a safe and effective treatment and is used to treat a number of skin conditions such as acne, wrinkles, discoloration, rough texture, pigmentation, and other irregularities. Chemical peels are applied in varying strengths depending on the patient’s aesthetic goals. The team of medical professionals perform chemical peels at most of our offices.
There are several types of chemical peels offered by our dermatology office. The strength used will be determined based on the skin condition of the patient, as well as the aesthetic goals and desired downtime. Our dermatology office offers the following peels:
Regardless of the type of peel used, the overall procedure is similar. The skin will be cleansed thoroughly and the chemical solution will be applied to the face. This process takes just a few minutes. During a light peel, the skin will tingle during treatment. A medium peel will produce a bit more discomfort, and a deep peel may require a numbing agent. The differences between the peels are the type of solution used, the number of steps taken during the actual procedure, and the amount of solution that is applied. A soothing ointment will be applied to the skin after the treatment. In the days that follow, the skin will begin to naturally flake and peel away. Patients should avoid picking at the skin or trying to speed up the peeling process in any way as this can result in scarring. Patients should avoid sun exposure and keep their skin protected at all times.
SkinPen® microneedling, or collagen induction therapy, is one of the newest skin rejuvenation treatments when it comes to producing younger, fresher, newer-looking skin in patients who are looking to improve their appearance. This minimally invasive procedure is used to improve skin tone and texture, as well as soften the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles and scarring. Microneedling consists of tiny needles that are used to create small holes in the skin, which disrupts the skin so it can consequently heal itself. Through this process, collagen and elastin are produced to repair these holes which improves a patient’s tone and texture. Despite the use of needles, there’s actually no tissue destruction since the small holes close so quickly. 
At Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center and RejuvedermMD, the SkinPen® is used to perform microneedling. This highly-advanced technology is used to produce superior results where many patients report seeing an immediate improvement in appearance. The process is quick with little downtime and is safe for all skin types, including those with sensitive skin. Schedule a consultation at one of our offices to learn more about the benefits of microneedling.
The provider will apply a sterile cartridge-tip with 12 micro-needles to a handheld device. The device will be pressed gently across the skin, gliding over the entire area being treated. The feeling is comparable to sand paper moving over the skin. The procedure will result in tiny holes, known as micro channels, on the skin which will close almost immediately, triggering a healing response. This results in renewed skin, including a thickened dermis, which will soften the appearance of lines and wrinkles. Microneedling is also effective in diminishing acne and traumatic scars and stretch marks. A patient’s appearance can continue to improve up to 6 months following initial treatment. While some patients benefit from a single treatment, 2-3 treatments are advised to get the best possible results.
A patient can expect the treated area to appear bright red, similar to a sunburn, immediately after microneedling. The redness can last anywhere from a day up to a week. The intensity and duration of the redness are dependent upon the number of passes performed on the treatment area, as well as the particular area treated. Microneedling can be performed on the face, neck, arms and décolleté. In some cases, there can be pinpoint bleeding. Since microneedling allows improved absorption of creams, gels and serums, our staff will assist in determining the best products for the patient post-procedure. These post-procedure products can include vitamin C or hyaluronic serums to accelerate results.
Right after the procedure, patients can expect the skin to glow. Over the course of a few weeks, a patient can expect to see a marked improvement in skin’s color, tone and texture. In addition, there should be a reduction of lines and wrinkles.  Our microneedling Allen providers will work closely with the patient to develop the right course of treatment based on his or her individual needs.
Dermaplaning involves the use of a surgical blade in light, feathering strokes across the skin to gently remove the layer of fine vellus hair, also known as peach fuzz, along with some surface layer skin cells allowing for a deep exfoliation. The procedure is ideal for those who are pregnant or nursing, when the use of chemicals is not recommended. The fine vellus hair that cannot be removed with a laser can cause buildup of oil and dirt in the follicles, so removing these hairs along with the exfoliation provides a much cleaner and smooth skin surface. Our patients love the way this treatment makes their face feel. Makeup will go on smoothly and the skin will appear softer with a healthy glow. The dermaplane procedure is often used in conjunction with other treatments to allow for deeper penetration of products and chemical peels.
While patients with darker skin may try the dermaplane treatment (it may cause a discoloration to the skin), light skinned patients may be better candidates. In addition, we do ask that your skin be clear. Fever blisters, cold sores, active acne, or rashes on the skin will worsen if a dermaplaning treatment takes place, and we recommend waiting until your skin is blemish free. Also, please let us know what facial treatments, such as a chemical peel, you have had on your face recently. We do not want to irritate or damage your skin unnecessarily with a reaction.
The aestheticians use a small, sterile blade while holding the skin taut, swiping the blade in gentle upward motions while removing the vellus hair and dead skin cells. The procedure can take around 30 minutes to perform and no real down time is expected unless a chemical peel is applied afterwards. You can expect a smoother, glowing complexion after your dermaplane procedure. Each facial treatment is patient specific to target your skin health concerns, and we accomplish this by analyzing your skin for the best use of our products.
Looking to get rid of the tattoo you thought you wanted eternally? We are ready to provide you with a consultation for our laser tattoo removal at RejuvedermMD Aesthetic Center. Lasers now provide a safe an effective way of removing tattoos. Q-Switched laser technology offers high efficiency at very low risk. It enables effective tattoo removal with little chance of side effects. The laser delivers light quickly – in billionths of a second – and at a very high energy. These pulses are absorbed by the tattoo, breaking it into pigment particles small enough for removal by the body. Laser tattoo removal can be customized to each patient, and the number of treatment sessions varies based on the size and coloring of the pigmentation on your skin.
Tattoos will be removed quicker for those who have fair skin simply because there is a greater difference between the tattoo ink pigments and your skin. When lasers are used to remove tattoos on those with darker skin, more caution is used to ensure there is no lightening or darkening of the skin around the tattoo. Older tattoos are easier to remove and those that consist of mostly black ink that is not dense. Laser tattoo removal relies on your immune system to dispose of broken-down ink particles. Because of that, the better health you are in, the better tattoo removal will go. Choose to have your tattoo removal treatments at times when your immune system isn’t compromised. Patients who don’t smoke, eat a well-balanced diet and stay active have all the healthy habits that will make laser tattoo removal better and easier. Speaking with an experienced and licensed skin health professional at our dermatology office is the first step in the laser tattoo removal process. We want you to be happy with the result, and want to provide you with the right information to have a realistic expectation of what the laser can and cannot remove.
Laser tattoo removal is not a one-step process. You may have several laser treatment sessions in order to fade the pigments in the skin. Your skin will also have to heal and repair itself between appointments. While pain tolerance is an individual matter, most people tolerate tattoo treatment well, and describe the sensation as a rubber band snap to the skin. When determining the number of treatments necessary, the technician will consider such factors such as tattoo location, tattoo color, and size. Our laser has optimal wavelengths to absorb and remove the tattoo from your skin without damaging any of the healthy surrounding skin cells. Once the session is complete, we will apply a healing ointment on the area to keep it hydrated, and then cover it with a protective bandage. You may have some swelling, crusting, intense itching, or a sensation that feels like a sunburn in the treatment area. We will discuss how to care for your skin with our aftercare instructions provided at the appointment.
Even though spider or varicose veins are common in many people, in some instances, they are so numerous or unsightly that an individual will seek to have them treated. In some cases, varicose veins can cause health issues such as chronic pain or swelling. A treatment method that has been around since the 1930’s is a procedure called sclerotherapy. With this procedure, a salt solution, also called a sclerosing solution, will be injected directly into unwanted veins. Over a period of time, the vein will disappear, leaving the patient with an improved appearance. Dr. Matthew Barrows and the medical professionals of Dermatology & Skin Cancer Surgery Center and RejuvedermMD use sclerotherapy as the preferred method for treating spider veins. Patients who have been hiding their spider and varicose veins should schedule a consultation with one of our dermatologists or practitioners to find out what can be done to give them great skin again.
Prior to treatment, a patient will be positioned with legs slightly elevated. Sclerotherapy involves using a fine needle to inject a salt solution directly into a patient’s vein. The dosage amount varies depending on the severity and condition of the client. In cases involving a larger vein, a doctor may opt for a foam solution since it covers a larger area. The solution irritates the vein’s lining, leading to it swelling shut and blocking the flow of blood. Over time, the vein will become scar tissue and disappear entirely. During the procedure, a patient may experience some discomfort, including cramping that lasts for a couple of minutes. The entire process takes around 15-30 minutes.
While light stinging or cramping is a common occurrence during the procedure, a patient should tell the practitioner if he or she is experiencing extreme pain because this could be a sign of the solution leaking from the vein into surrounding tissue. After the solution is injected and the needle removed, the practitioner will apply compression to the treatment area. The practitioner will also massage the area to evenly distribute the solution and to keep blood out of the injected vein to prevent any undue complications. Sometimes, the practitioner will tape a compression pad to the treated area if he or she is going to treat another vein.
When the procedure is over, the patient will lie on his or her back for 15-20 minutes and the practitioner will check the injection sites for any signs of side effects. The patient will then be instructed to stand and walk around to prevent blood clots from forming. For about three weeks following the procedure, the patient will need to wear compression garments to keep the treated veins properly compressed. While there is no downtime, patients should avoid strenuous exercise for about 2 weeks. When small veins are treated, results can be seen in 3-6 weeks and with larger veins, it may take 4-6 months.
CoolSculpting®,  a nonsurgical alternative to traditional liposuction, uses breakthrough technology called cryolipolysis to eliminate fat cells in a patient’s problem areas.  This technology is useful for those that have fat cells that are resistant to exercise and diet. The fat cells undergo a precise form of cooling to target and kill only the stubborn subcutaneous fat and not the surrounding tissue. The fat cells are eliminated from the body naturally in the weeks following treatment.  This method is highly effective and FDA approved for removing fat cells on the abdomen, under the chin, on the back, in the bra area, under the buttocks and on the thighs.
It is important to note that CoolSculpting® is not a viable solution for weight loss. It is a fat-reduction and body contouring procedure recommended for those at an average and healthy weight who have isolated pockets or bulges of fat that have proven to be resistant in the past. Patients should have relatively healthy skin tone without sagging skin.
There have been numerous studies regarding the results behind cryolipolysis. These studies have proven that after just one treatment, patients can expect up to 20% reduction in fat in as few as 3 weeks after the procedure. CoolSculpting® freezes and kill fat cells, so in the weeks and months following the procedure, the body will naturally process and eliminate these targeted cells leaving the patient with a slimmer, more sculpted appearance. Once the body rids itself of these cells, they are permanently gone. It is important to note that after CoolSculpting®, a patient should practice a healthy lifestyle, including a balanced diet and regular exercise for optimal results.
During a CoolSculpting® procedure, a patient can expect to experience intense cold and pressure in the targeted area, but this dissipates quickly. The CoolSculpting® device is placed on the area of fat where it will draw up the unwanted bulge in between the device’s two cooling panels. The sensation is comparable to a firm pull, but there should be no pain. In fact, during the procedure, patients are usually comfortable enough to watch videos, work on laptops or tablets, read or even take a nap. The length of the treatment depends on the area being treated but usually takes around an hour. There is no downtime associated with CoolSculpting®.
The RejuvedermMD Aesthetic Center in Allen is proud to offer miraDry®. MiraDry® is a noninvasive, FDA approved treatment that helps patients eliminate the need for deodorants and antiperspirants. Underarm sweat while you’re exercising or nervous is normal, but if you are constantly having to worry about excess sweat that stains your clothes and causes embarrassing odor, then miraDry® might be a good option for you. Since humans are born with more than 2 million sweat glands in the body, only about 2% are in the armpits, which means that after a miraDry® treatment, you can easily live without them. Our team of experienced medical professionals recommend miraDry® therapy for patients who have tried other treatments, but have failed to overcome their excessive sweating.
miraDry® treatments can be very helpful for both men and women who want to eliminate their need for deodorants and antiperspirants. Patients who benefit from miraDry® may be using a lot of strong or prescription antiperspirants, but still have sweat stains on their clothing. Schedule a consultation to learn if you are a good candidate for a miraDry® treatment.
The miraDry® system uses proprietary miraWave™ energy that is directed to the underarm and targets and destroys sweat and odor glands in this area. Once those glands are destroyed they do not come back. For our patients, this means no more worrying about wet marks, antiperspirant marks, stickiness, and strong odors.
miraDry® treatments are performed in our dermatology office and take approximately 2 hours from start to finish. While the procedure is not invasive, a numbing agent is applied to the underarms to make the process more comfortable for the patient. The miraDry® device is applied directly to the sweat glands in the armpits, and the energy pulses to immediately eliminate the glands. The heated energy works on the sweat and odor glands while the surface of the skin is kept cool by the miraDry® device. Both underarms are usually treated in one appointment and the patient is free to leave and resume their normal activities after their treatment.
After the treatment, the underarm area may have temporary swelling, soreness, numbness, or tingling for a few days to a few weeks, but you will have an immediate reduction in underarm sweat after the treatment. Once they are destroyed, sweat glands do not come back, so your results will be long lasting. You can resume normal activities right after your treatment, but it is best to avoid strenuous activity, like exercise, for a few days.
Ultherapy® is a nonsurgical skin tightening procedure that delivers ultrasound energy deep into the muscle layer for a lifted, rejuvenated result without surgery or downtime. Ultherapy® provides outstanding outcomes for patients who wish to treat wrinkles and lines on the eyebrows, neck, chin, and décolleté. With this procedure, ultrasound energy is used to penetrate layers of the skin that were previously only reached through cosmetic surgery. In addition, collagen is stimulated by the deliverance of ultrasound energy down into the skin’s foundational layer.
FDA cleared Ultherapy® uses ultrasound energy to lift and tighten the skin on the face, neck, and décolleté. The provider will be able to see deep within the skin to pinpoint the correct position for energy to be delivered. The ultrasound energy will be delivered underneath the surface of the skin stimulating the regenerative process that produces new collagen.
You will first have a consultation with an Ultherapy® provider to determine if you are a good candidate for the treatment. Your provider will apply an ultrasound gel to the skin and then place the smooth applicator. A patient can expect to feel energy being deposited into precise depths of the skin indicating that the collagen-building process is being initiated. Some people feel a prickling sensation; your provider may suggest taking a pain reliever prior to the Ultherapy® procedure. After the procedure, a patient’s skin may appear flushed. This will subside within a few hours to a few days. Patients have reported tenderness, swelling or a tingling feeling. These symptoms will resolve within a few days to a few weeks.

